In this lecture we'll learn how we can remove the data from the cache because sometimes you need to
do that explicitly and as an example we'll use a page with an individual blog post.
So first we'll catch this blog post when someone visits the page but then we'll edit this blog post
title to see that it wasn't updated so then we'll have to manually remove this from the cache.
So let's go to the post controller show action and we'll start a blog post inside the variable so we'll
be using the cash for site.
Remember metals what we did before and now in this case we have to come up with some dynamic he and
what I mean by dynamic is we won't just use keys like here most active or most active last month.
It has to contain some identifier of the post because otherwise you will be showing users the same post
all the time.
So we have to do something like blog post
and then add the blog post ideas or any other unique parameter of the model so.
Also notice that since we will be we'll start caching our data.
It might be a good idea to come up with some nomenclature of how you'd like to call this case because
if you will have more and more keys than using keys like most active or most active last month for most
comment it doesn't really say much about them.
So maybe let's change that to blog post comment at and here users most active and finally users most
active.
Last month
OK.
Now we would like to also store this blog post for 60 Minutes and lets out a closure that will actually
fetch this blog post together with the comments
so we have to return it from disclosure
and now we'll use this data and pass it to the view okay.
So let's go to the web browser and you can see that for this page Lavell has to make four queries.
Now if you will now we have a problem undefined variable I.D..
And it happened because the closure cannot access variables which are from the outside scope and by
scope.
I mean the closure scope is only here.
So anything that was defined outside it is not available to the closure.
So to make it available you have to add use and specify a variable name.
So this time it will work.
OK so we have a blog post.
Now it was cached under the blog post with the I.D. key which was forty seven in that case.
And after you refresh you can see that now it only made two queries.
So this is cached.
So now let's see what will happen if we will get to the main page and mind that I am now logged in as
other means.
So if you are not.
Then make sure you log in and you will edit this post so let's change the title to something valid and
what you can see is that the post was updated but the name remained the old one because it is being
returned from cache.
You can see here in the queries that no query was made to fetch this blog post but if you will go to
the blog post list here you can see that the title was changed because we do not cache this part.
So this is I think you will have to know and you will have problems with that all the time that you
have to think what you should cache for how long.
And also you have to worry about clearing the cache.
So we have to remove items from the cache when the cache is no longer valid.
So data has to be fetched again from the database.
Now what you you can do to achieve that with models for example is you can use events.
So here inside the blog post model we have inside the boot method.
We have two methods that we handle the deleting and restoring and it is to delete all the comments and
restore them.
So now we can add another event handler and the even name is updating.
So when the post will be updating we can reset the cache for this particular item
so let's are the closure and now we will have to use the cash for seed so make sure you either press
enter in Visual Studio code so the import is added or add the import manually to this namespace.
So now there is a method called forget and the only argument it accepts is the actual cash key name
so if will go to the post controller.
This is our cash key.
So it contains blog post with the I.D..
And here we can read it from the models or blog post I.D..
Now from this point of time when we will attempt to update this to something else let's use Y for example
and we update the blog post.
You can see that now it fetch the fresh data from the database and you can always check that on the
query stop.
So you can see it reads from the blog post stable.
And also it reads from the comments table.
That's why it has the fresh data presented.
Now the next time you visit this page you can see that queries for the blog post and comments are no
longer made.
And this is because it is now being read from the cache and it happens again on the all subsequent calls
to this page.
But when will edit this blog post then it will reset this cache.
So this is how can you remove the data when you know it is no longer fresh and needs to be updated.
That's just an example.
Generally you should use cache forget and provide the key the same key that you used to remember this
data in cash in the first place.